# Introduction

As an open source project, we think that openness goes beyond giving
access to our source code. Therefore we have attempted to describe our
governance policy below. We are open to your suggestions, so feel free
to comment here or on our [mailing
list](http://restlet.com/participate/).

# Roles

## User

Basically, any person that has downloaded and used the Restlet software.
There is no special requirement to become one, just go on [this
page](http://restlet.com/).

## Contributor

We have a very broad definition of this role. For us, each person who
directly contributes by feed-back, bug report, feature or enhancement
suggestion, documentation writing, code or patch contribution receives
the **contributor** title. We attempt to maintain a complete list on
[this page](http://restlet.com/participate/team#contributors).

Persons who want to contribute source code to the Restlet project are
all required to sign our JCA (Joint Copyright Assignment). For
instructions and details, please consult [this
page](http://restlet.com/participate/contribute).

## Extension committer

Some **contributors** have step up and taken some responsibilities.
Those persons are extension leads, driving a specific Restlet extension
with committer rights on the extension source code. We maintain a
complete list on [this
page](http://restlet.com/participate/team#extension-committers).

The **extension committers** are reporting to the **technical lead** for
all major decisions, regarding the features scope, high-level design,
build and distribution aspects.

## Core committer

These developers have commit privileges over the whole source code base.
They are responsible of the project management, technical architecture,
design and core development. Their work is funded by the **project
owner** under the responsibility of the **technical lead**. We maintain
a complete list on [this
page](http://restlet.com/participate/team#core-committers).

## Technical lead

This person who has the responsibility for the technical architecture,
the overall community animation and is selected by the **project
owner**. Currently Jérôme Louvel, the creator of the Restlet project, is
in charge of this role.

The **technical lead**is reporting to the **project owner**for all major
decisions, regarding the features scope, the overall architecture and
design aspects.

## Project owner

This legal person is responsible for the overall project strategy, for
providing a legal shelter and for funding most of the development
effort. This is the only person who owns the comprehensive copyrights on
the source code and documentation of the project. Currently, this person
is the [Restlet](http://restlet.com/) company.

[![](/images/logo-restlet.png)](http://restlet.com/)

# Roadmap

Our [roadmap is equally open](https://github.com/restlet/restlet-framework-java/wiki) and
based on our [online issue
tracker](http://restlet.com/participate/contribute). All users are
allowed to enter new issues or comment on existing one. The overall
decisions regarding the roadmap are made by the technical lead.

# Legal terms

One crucial aspect of an open source project is the legal terms that are
chosen regarding:

-   copyright
-   trademarks
-   usage and distribution licenses
